Group merchant services schema together (#540)
AdobeDocs/commerce-webapi: src/pages/graphql/schema/merchant-services/index.md

| Edition | Environment | Endpoint |
| --- | --- | --- |
| PaaS | Testing | `https://catalog-service-sandbox.adobe.io/graphql` |
| PaaS | Production | `https://catalog-service.adobe.io/graphql` |
| SaaS | Testing | `https://na1-sandbox.api.commerce.adobe.com/{{tenant-id}}/graphql` |
| SaaS | Production | `https://na1.api.commerce.adobe.com/{{tenant-id}}/graphql` |

### Different HTTP headers

Instead of the authentication tokens used by core Commerce, these services require SaaS context headers:

| Header | Required by | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `Magento-Environment-Id` | All three services | The SaaS Data Space ID from the Commerce Admin |
| `Magento-Store-Code` | All three services | Store code |
| `Magento-Store-View-Code` | All three services | Store view code |
| `Magento-Website-Code` | All three services | Website code |
| `X-Api-Key` | Catalog Service, Product Recommendations | Unique API key for your Commerce environment |
| `X-Api-Key: search_gql` | Live Search | Fixed value required for Live Search requests |
| `Magento-Customer-Group` | Catalog Service, Product Recommendations | Customer group for personalized pricing |

### Different data types

> Merchant Services return their own types that are not interchangeable with core types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storefront Services return their own types that are not interchangeable with core types:
```

- The Catalog Service `products` query returns `ProductView` objects (`SimpleProductView` or `ComplexProductView`), not the core `Products` type. Prices, images, attributes, and options are structured differently.
- The Live Search `productSearch` query returns `ProductSearchResponse` with facets (`Aggregation`) and merchandising metadata. The core `products` query returns layered-navigation data for categories, which is a fundamentally different filtering model.
- Both the Catalog Service and core Commerce expose a `categories` query, but the Catalog Service version is read-optimized and returns only the data needed to render category navigation, not the full administrative category tree.

### No write operations

Merchant Services schemas contain only queries. All mutations (cart, checkout, customer, orders) remain in the core schema and must be sent to the core endpoint.

> ## When to use Merchant Services queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When to use Storefront Services queries
```

**Use Merchant Services queries when:**

> - Building or customizing a storefront and you need the fastest possible catalog rendering for PDPs, PLPs, search, or recommendations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Building or customizing a storefront that requires the fastest possible catalog rendering for PDPs, PLPs, search, or recommendations.
```

- The Merchant Services extensions are not installed or your Commerce instance is not connected to Adobe's SaaS platform.

## How Merchant Services differ from Adobe Commerce Optimizer

Adobe Commerce Optimizer is a standalone SaaS platform that is not installed as an extension on an existing Commerce instance. It provides the **Merchandising GraphQL API**, which covers a similar set of storefront use cases but with a different architecture, different query signatures, and different headers.

### Architectural difference

| Aspect | Merchant Services | Commerce Optimizer |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Deployment model** | Extensions installed on an existing Adobe Commerce (PaaS or SaaS) instance | Standalone SaaS platform; catalog data is ingested via a separate Data Ingestion API |
| **Data source** | Commerce catalog, indexed into Adobe SaaS | Data ingested independently into Commerce Optimizer |
| **Context model** | Store view and website codes from Commerce | Catalog views and policies defined in Commerce Optimizer |
| **Authentication** | `X-Api-Key` tied to your Commerce environment | No API key required; context is provided through `AC-View-Id` |

> 

Reviewer: Need to indicate that Commerce PaaS customers can use the Commerce Optimizer Connector to synchronize data to a Commerce Optimizer instance and use the Merchandising GraphQL to retrieve catalog data.  This option is not available for Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service deployments. Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service customers must use the Catalog Service, Live Search, and Product Recommendations

Something like: 

Commerce projects deployed on Adobe Commerce on cloud or on-premises, can use the [Commerce Optimizer Connector](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce/aco-optimizer-connector/overview) to synchronize Commerce catalog data to an Adobe Commerce Optimizer instance.  When the connector is installed and enabled, customers use the Merchandising Services GraphQL queries to retrieve product and catalog data instead of using the Catalog Service, Live Search, and Product Recommendations queries.  The retrieve data for prroduct discovery, recommendations, Projects deployed on Commerce as a Cloud Service must use Storefront Services

| Query | Merchant Services | Commerce Optimizer |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `products` | Catalog Service — fetch by SKU, returns `ProductView` | Same name, same general purpose, but uses `AC-View-Id` context |
| `productSearch` | Live Search / Catalog Service — full search with `phrase`, `filter`, `sort`, optional `context` | Similar structure, but context is provided through headers rather than a `context` input object |
| `attributeMetadata` | Live Search — returns filterable and sortable attributes | Same name and purpose; independent implementation |
| `refineProduct` | Catalog Service — narrow complex product options by selection | Equivalent query available |
| `variants` | Catalog Service — return all variant combinations | Equivalent query available |
| `categories` | Catalog Service — return category hierarchy | Commerce Optimizer uses `categoryTree` with `family` and `slugs` arguments |
| `recommendations` | Product Recommendations — returns units by recommendation type | Commerce Optimizer uses `recommendationsByUnitIds`, which requires pre-configured unit IDs |
| _(none)_ | Not available in Merchant Services | `navigation` — returns category-based navigation structure |

> ### When to use Commerce Optimizer instead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### When to use Commerce Optimizer
```

> Use the Commerce Optimizer Merchandising GraphQL API instead of Merchant Services queries when:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Commerce Optimizer Merchandising GraphQL API instead of Storefront Services queries when:
```

- You are building on Adobe Commerce Optimizer as a standalone SaaS platform rather than on an Adobe Commerce (PaaS/SaaS) instance.
- Your storefront needs to serve multiple catalog views or channel-specific product catalogs controlled by Commerce Optimizer policies.

> - You are migrating off a traditional Commerce installation and Commerce Optimizer is the designated catalog backend.

Reviewer: The migration scenario is not supported. You can't use Merchandising Services GraphQL unless you have a PaaS instance configured with the ACO Connector, or you are using s stand alone Adobe Commerce Optimizer instance.  (ACCS to ACO is not supported)

```suggestion
- Your Commerce on cloud infrastructure or on premises project has been configured to use the Adobe Commerce Optimizer Connector which syncs data from your Commerce project to Adobe Commerce Optimizer.
```

> If you are running Adobe Commerce (PaaS or SaaS) with the Merchant Services extensions installed, use the Merchant Services queries described in this section. The two API surfaces are not interchangeable—switching endpoints without also migrating your catalog data and context configuration will result in errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are running Adobe Commerce (PaaS or SaaS) with the Storefront Services extensions installed, use the Storefront Services queries described in this section. The two API surfaces are not interchangeable—switching endpoints without also migrating your catalog data and context configuration will result in errors.
```
